Hello and welcome back to the course on tableau.
And today we will create a map for our dataset.
But first things first let's go ahead and save our workbook so we'll just press control s and this one
is gonna be Section Six.
So as we usually do what we look for where we create a map is that little globe icon that we can drag
on to so the dimension that we can drag on to our tableau workspace.
And that way the map will be great for us.
But today we've got a bit of a conundrum we don't have the globe icon were everything here is either
a numeric value or a text field.
And here as well so we can create a map and on moreover we don't have those latitude and longitude measures
that are usually generated for us.
So how do we create a map in this case.
Well we know that region is our locational variable here and maybe let's try dragging that into the
workbook.
But once we drag it in nothing happens it just creates this table for us.
So how do we create a map in this case.
Well this is a good example of when tableau doesn't automatically recognize geographical roles and you
have to set them for your workbook yourself.
So we're just going to take that out of our worksheet and now what are we what we need to do is we need
to right click on region and we need to set a geographic crawl.
So if we go down here this geographic roll and we can select what geographic roll we want region to
play.
So in this case it's called region in the dataset.
But what tableau recognizes as a region is different.
What we are implying under region in the dataset is actually called state in tableau because it's different
for U.K. tableau deems what we call region in the dataset teams and states.
So we're going to select state and now we have a global icon.
And now we have latitude and longitude generated.
Okay good.
So now we can drag a region into our worksheet and what happens now well we see the whole map of the
world for some reason and we don't see the U.K. We don't see our customer base we don't see anything
like it did and it just built a map of the world for us but then map and put anything onto this map.
So what else we can see here is on the bottom right there's an indicator showing us that there's four
unknown values in this geographic classification.
So let's go ahead and look at that.
If you click on the four unknowns and you click edit locations what you'll find is that England Northern
Ireland Scotland and Wales have not been recognized.
Well this can easily be fixed if you tell tableau which country there is supposed to be looking in.
The reason is that right now Tableau is looking in Namibia for an unknown unknown reason.
It's just looking in the mirror maybe you have to change that too obviously to the UK.
So tableau knows that these states or provinces are actually located in the UK and that's where it should
be looking.
So we're going to go and find United Kingdom over here click on that.
And right away you can see that tableau has now matched them up and click ok here and there you go right
away were taken to the map of the U.K. And what do we need to do now is we need to changes from automatic
to filled map and there you go that's how we created a map of the U.K. So we will talk a bit more about
the errors that can occur when you're creating maps in in the next section of the course in the section
on data preparation.
But for now that was a good intro and now you know how to create your own geographic roles or assign
your own geographic roles in your dataset.
What we're going to do now is we want to justice or add some information to this map.
Well first of all we'll just assign random colors for now to our four states so we can as we can see
them separately.
So we're just going to take region and we're going to instead of keeping it in detail we just drag it
into color.
And now what we're going to do next is we're going to add information we want to see the total number
of customers in each of these regions that we're looking at.
And how do we do that how do we add the total number of customers.
Well we don't have a measure which corresponds to the total number of customers but what we do have
and what is automatically added to every word we can Tableau is a field a generated field that counts
a number of rows and it's called number of records and that is a very very powerful tool because in
our case we know that the number of rows is exactly the number of customers.
So we can use this generated feel to our advantage.
So we're going to take a number of records and we're going to drag it into label and right away you
can see the total number of customers has appeared on our map.
So all we have to do now is kind of format it a bit.
So let's go.
We have twelve and bold and let's just kind of reposition these labels so that they're working well
and we can see them well.
OK.
And now we'll probably prepare our map a little bit for the future.
So if your resume when you have to pull down control we want our map to be as compact as possible so
there you go.
And that is pretty much it for the map.
Well let's controls that.
I just wanted to move this label.
That's very much it for the map for now.
So we did assign some random colors and they might not work well if our dashboard when we created so
we'll change those a bit later.
That's all for today.
In the next material we will start looking at some charts to complement this map and you'll see how
all this is going to be coming together slowly into one amazing dashboard.
So that's all for today I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.